Cut release 0.4.0-rc.0 (#1017)
improbable-eng/thanos: CHANGELOG.md

## Unreleased

> ## [v0.4.0](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/releases/tag/v0.4.0) - 2019.04.12

Author: We need to change this to 0.4.0-rc.0

    * `--store.grpc.series-max-concurrency` limits the number of concurrent Series() calls in Thanos Store. By default it is 20. Considering making it lower or bigger depending on the scale of your deployment.

  New Store metrics:
  
    * `thanos_bucket_store_queries_dropped_total` shows how many queries were dropped due to the samples limit;
    * `thanos_bucket_store_queries_concurrent_max` is a constant metric which shows how many Series() calls can concurrently be executed by Thanos Store;
    * `thanos_bucket_store_queries_in_flight` shows how many queries are currently "in flight" i.e. they are being executed;
    * `thanos_bucket_store_gate_duration_seconds` shows how many seconds it took for queries to pass through the gate in both cases - when that fails and when it does not.
    
  New Store tracing span:
    * `store_query_gate_ismyturn` shows how long it took for a query to pass (or not) through the gate.
    
- [#1016](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/1016) Added option for another DNS resolver (miekg/dns client). 

> This to have SRV resolution working on [Golang 1.11+ with KubeDNS below v1.14](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/27546)

Author: ```suggestion
Note that this is required to have SRV resolution working on [Golang 1.11+ with KubeDNS below v1.14](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/27546)
```

   New Querier and Ruler flag: `-- store.sd-dns-resolver` which allows to specify resolver to use. Either `golang` or `miekgdns`
   

> - [#986](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/986) Allow to save some startup & sync time in store gateway as it is no longer is needed to compute index-cache from block index on its own. 

Author: ```suggestion
- [#986](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/986) Allow to save some startup & sync time in store gateway as it is no longer needed to compute index-cache from block index on its own for larger blocks.
```

>   For compatibility store GW still can do it, but it first checks bucket if there is index-cached uploaded already. 

Author: ```suggestion
  The store Gateway still can do it, but it first checks bucket if there is index-cached uploaded already. 
```

  In the same time, compactor precomputes the index cache file on every compaction. 

>   New Compactor flag: `--index.generate-missing-cache-file` was added to allow quicker addition of index cache files, if enabled it precomputes missing files on compactor startup. Note that it will take time and it's only one-off step per bucket.

Author: ```suggestion
  New Compactor flag: `--index.generate-missing-cache-file` was added to allow quicker addition of index cache files. If enabled it precomputes missing files on compactor startup. Note that it will take time and it's only one-off step per bucket.
```

> :warning: **WARNING** :warning: #798 adds a new default limit to Thanos Store: `--store.grpc.series-max-concurrency`. Most likely you will want to make it the same as `--query.max-concurrent` on Thanos Query.

Author: Can we move it be next to the mention about this PR?

> - [#887](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/887) Compact: Added new `--block-sync-concurrency` flag, which allows you tconfigure number of goroutines to use when syncing block metadata from object storage.

Author: ```suggestion
- [#887](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/887) Compact: Added new `--block-sync-concurrency` flag, which allows you to configure number of goroutines to use when syncing block metadata from object storage.
```

> - [#928](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/928) Query: Added `--store.response-timeout` flag. If a Store doesn't send any data in this specified duration then a Store will be ignored and partial data will be returned if it's enabled. 0 disables timeout.

Author: As we know this flag is not working that great due to blocking SeriesSet. I would mention that maybe?

Reviewer: It does work at max it would timeout `--store.response-timeout` * Number of Thanos Store's in the case of all Thanos Stores are slow

Reviewer: Which is Improbable case IMO :D

Reviewer: Thiis is an rc release so I guess it's fine for now. I'll add docs & metrics in next one

> - [#893](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/893) S3 storage backend has graduated to `stable` maturity level.

Author: lol (:

Reviewer: :D

## Unreleased

## [v0.4.0-rc.0](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/releases/tag/v0.4.0-rc.0) - 2019.04.12

> :warning: **IMPORTANT** :warning: This is the last release that supports gossip. From 0.5.0. Gossip will be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
:warning: **IMPORTANT** :warning: This is the last release that supports gossip. From Thanos v0.5.0, gossip will be completely removed.

This release also disables gossip mode by default for all components.
```

See [this](docs/proposals/approved/201809_gossip-removal.md) for more details.

### Added

> - [#811](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/811) Remote write receiver

Author: ```suggestion
- [#811](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/811) Remote write receiver component :heart: :heart: thanks to RedHat (@brancz) contribution.
```

- [#910](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/910) Query's stores UI page is now sorted by type and old DNS or File SD stores are removed after 5 minutes (configurable via the new `--store.unhealthy-timeout=5m` flag).

> - [#905](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/905) New Query API: /api/v1/labels. Noticed that the API was added in Prometheus v2.6.

Author: Notice
```suggestion
- [#905](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/905) Thanos support for Query API: /api/v1/labels. Notice that the API was added in Prometheus v2.6.
```

> - [#798](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/798) Ability to limit the maximum concurrent about of Series() calls in Thanos Store and the maximum amount of samples.

Author: ```suggestion
- [#798](https://github.com/improbable-eng/thanos/pull/798) Ability to limit the maximum number of concurrent request to Series() calls in Thanos Store and the maximum amount of samples we handle.
```
